Clarify fill value representation, change nan representation (#236)
zarr-developers/zarr-specs: docs/v3/core/v3.0.rst

    Provides an element value to use for uninitialised portions of the
    Zarr array.

    If the data type of the Zarr array is Boolean then the value must
    be the literal ``false`` or ``true``. If the data type is one of
    the integer data types defined in this specification, then the
    value must be a number with no fraction or exponent part and must
    be within the range of the data type.
    The permitted values depend on the data type:

    For any data type, the ``fill_value`` is required. The literal
    ``null`` is not permitted. The fill value needs to be defined
    so that the data is independent of implementation details. Internally
    implementations may provide a default ``fill_value``, but that must

>     be converted to a fixed value in the stored metadata.

Reviewer: I think it might be useful to keep this sentence, to distinguish between metadata and library API level.

Author: Done.

      - A JSON number, that will be rounded to the nearest representable value.

      - A JSON string of the form:

>         - ``"inf"``, denoting positive infinity;

Author: To be clear, the proposed nan syntax as defined does not force a quiet nan, the number given in the parentheses fully specifies all the mantissa bits.  But indeed it cannot be parsed using strtof/strtod, since those functions use an implementation-defined mapping.

Negative zero can already be specified with regular json syntax, no need for a separate representation for that.

It seemed simpler to just have one way to represent each number so that the implementation does not have to choose between two different representations.

But I suppose if just specifying the full binary representation of the float is preferable, that is fine too.  Note that we would still need to precisely specify which NaN is denoted by "NaN".

>         - ``"inf"``, denoting positive infinity;

Reviewer 2: > Negative zero can already be specified with regular json syntax, no need for a separate representation for that.

ah, you're right. My testing was incorrect. I used -0 instead of -0.0 ...

>         - ``"inf"``, denoting positive infinity;

Reviewer: > It seemed simpler to just have one way to represent each number so that the implementation does not have to choose between two different representations.

Good point, having a single representation would be nice. But the special `nan(…)` syntax seems quite custom, and in most cases the simple `nan` would do, which also duplicates `nan(0x1)` then.

> But I suppose if just specifying the full binary representation of the float is preferable, that is fine too. Note that we would still need to precisely specify which NaN is denoted by "NaN".

I assume we will also need a binary representation for raw dtypes, and also for more custom dtypes in the future. Therefore I'd also use this for the specific nan representations. But it would be great if you could still include this as a detail, specifying how to represent a specific nan.

    Provides an element value to use for uninitialised portions of the
    Zarr array.

    The permitted values depend on the data type:

    ``bool``
      The value must be a JSON boolean (``false`` or ``true``).

    Integers (``{uint,int}{8,16,32,64}``)
      The value must be a JSON number with no fraction or exponent part that is
      within the representable range of the data type.

    IEEE 754 floating point numbers (``float{16,32,64}``)
      The value may be either:

      - A JSON number, that will be rounded to the nearest representable value.

      - A JSON string of the form:

>         - ``"+Infinity"``, denoting positive infinity;

Reviewer 2: Note that Zarr V2 uses "Infinity" without leading '+' . Is the discrepancy ZarrV2 vs ZarrV3 intended ?

Author: That wasn't intentional --- I changed it back.

        - ``"-Infinity"``, denoting negative infinity;
        - ``"NaN"``, denoting thenot-a-number (NaN) value where the sign bit is
          0 (positive), the most significant bit (MSB) of the mantissa is 1, and
          all other bits of the mantissa are zero;
        - ``"0xYYYYYYYY"``, specifying the byte representation of the floating
          point number as an unsigned integer.  For example, for ``float32``,
          ``"NaN"`` is equivalent to ``"0x7fc00000"``.  This representation is
          the only way to specify a NaN value other than the specific NaN value
          denoted by ``"NaN"``.

        .. warning::

           While this NaN syntax is consistent with the syntax accepted by the
           C99 ``strtod`` function, C99 leaves the meaning of the NaN payload
           string implementation defined, which may not match the Zarr
           definition.

    Complex numbers (``complex{64,128}``)
      The value must be a two-element array, specifying the real and imaginary
      components respectively, where each component is specified as defined
      above for floating point number.

>       For example, ``[1, 2]`` indicates ``1 + 2i`` and ``["-inf", "nan(0x7)"]``
>       indicates a complex number with real component of -inf and imaginary
>       component of positive NaN with payload of ``0x7``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      For example, ``[1, 2]`` indicates ``1 + 2i`` and ``["-Infinity", "NaN"]``
      indicates a complex number with real component of -inf and imaginary
      component of NaN.
```

                "level": 1
            }
        }],

>         "fill_value": "nan(0x7)",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "fill_value": "NaN",
```
